.TH CHAOSVPN 1 "Feburary 2010" "Discordian coreutils" ""
.SH NAME
chaosvpn.conf - configfile for chaosvpn
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chaosvpn.conf
configure the behavior of the config generator
.PP
This config file is written in a perl-like syntax. The reason for that
was chaosvpn 1.0, which was written in perl.
.SH CONFIG
.B $my_peerid
.RS 4
.PP
This is your network name - this is unique in the master config
.PP
.RE
.B $my_vpn_ip
.RS 4
.PP
Your IP address in the network.
.PP
.RE
.B $my_vpn_netmask
.RS 4
.PP
Your netmask for your IP Address. If you only use one IP in
your Network or route the rest of your IPs out to other devices
use "255.255.255.255" - in 99% of all usages you should keep this at
"255.255.255.255".
.PP
.RE
.B $my_vpn_ip6
.RS 4
.PP
Your IPV6 address of our node/gateway. If you not using IPv6, leave this
empty.
.PP
.RE
.B $my_ip
.RS 4
.PP
The address your tincd listens to. Leave this empty to listen on all
interfaces (0.0.0.0).
.PP
.RE
.B @exclude
.RS 4
.PP
The exclude parameter can contain a list of node names. A VPN connection
will not established to them. You may want to use it if you have another
VPN, or direct connection to these nodes.
.PP
.RE
.B $networkname
.RS 4
.PP
Name of you config in tinc. For CCC ChaosVPN set this to "chaos".
.PP
.RE
.B $tincd_bin
(optional)
.RS 4
.PP
Path to tincd executable. Default is "/usr/sbin/tincd".
.PP
.RE
.B $routemetric
.RS 4
.PP
Priority of your route. Only needed if you wanna build up redudant routes.
Keep this at "0" unless you know why you change it.
.PP
.RE
.B $routeadd
.br
.B $routeadd6
.RS 4
.PP
Commands to setup you routes. These may be different on different systems.
.PP
.RE
.B $ifconfig
.br
.B $ifconfig6
.RS 4
.PP
Commands to setup IP address and netmask for IPv4 and IPv6. This may be different
on different systems too.
.PP
.RE
.B $master_url
.RS 4
.PP
URL to get the master config. Default is configured to CCC ChaosVPN.
.PP
.RE
.B $masterdata_signkey
(optional)
.RS 4
.PP
Public Key to verify data from master URL. If no key is defined fall back to
cleartext transport - that will not work for CCC ChaosVPN.
.PP
.RE
.B $base
.RS 4
.PP
Location of the generated tinc config.
.PP
.RE
.B $pidfile
.RS 4
.PP
Location of the ProcessID file to ensure tincd process is running only once.
.PP
.RE
.B $tincd_debuglevel
(optional)
.RS 4
.PP
Debuglevel of the tincd output. More details in tincd documentation.
.PP
.RE
.B $tincd_restart_delay
(optional)
.RS 4
.PP
Number of seconds to wait before tincd is restarted after it has
unexpectedly terminated.
.PP
.RE
.B $update_interval
(optional)
.RS 4
.PP
Number of seconds to wait between refetching the remote config.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
chaosvpn(1)
