.TH CHAOSVPN 1 "March 2010" "Discordian coreutils" ""
.SH NAME
chaosvpn - manage tincd to connect to the chaosvpn
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI chaosvpn
[-c CONFIGFILE] [-o] [-f]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chaosvpn
is a utility that simplifies the process of connecting to the chaosvpn.
.PP
tincd is used to connect to the chaosvpn; the chaosvpn utility configures and runs the tinc daemon.
.PP
chaosvpn is configured via the configuration file \fBchaosvpn.conf\fP.
At this time, only a limited set of command line arguments are accepted.
.PP
When run,
.B chaosvpn
attempts to download the current configuration of the chaosvpn network
from a central server which can be configured in \fBchaosvpn.conf\fP.
If successful, it uses the downloaded information along with the
settings found in \fBchaosvpn.conf\fP to generate the configuration
files necessary to run tincd. If a tinc configuration already exists,
a backup is created in a directory suffixed \fB.old\fP.
.PP
After all configuration files have been created, tincd is started. At
the moment, \fBchaosvpn\fP does not detach itself from the terminal.
The recommended method to run chaosvpn is in the foreground (since it
still needs a lot of testing). If you want to run in in production
mode, use the daemontools suite.
.PP
If tincd terminates, it is restarted after a delay which can be
configured in \fBchaosvpn.conf\fP. If desired, \fBchaosvpn\fP can be
used in 'legacy mode': try to kill the old tincd if it is running, and
terminate ourselves after we successfully launched a new tincd
instance.
.PP
\fBchaosvpn\fP supports the following options:
.TP
\fB-c CONFIGFILE\fP Use CONFIGFILE as configuration file instead of ./chaosvpn.conf
.TP
\fB-o\fP Oneshot legacy mode. After configuration files are updated, try to
kill an already running tincd by reading its pid from the PIDFILE
specified in chaosvpn.conf. After a new tincd is launched, terminate
the chaosvpn utility instead of controlling tincd.
.TP
\fB-f\fP Control tincd. (default) tincd is started in the background
and automatically restarted if it crashes, or if the configuration has
changed.
.SH SEE ALSO
chaosvpn.conf(5), tincd(8)
.SH BUGS
Quite a few, probably. Definitely needs testing.
.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
Not secure at all at the moment. We need to do some serious asymetric
signature validation.
.SH TODO
 * Parse command line options
 * Write a utility to generate keys?
 * Generate initial config from chaosvpn(1)?
 ** And send it to a contact person which will include it on the central configuration file?
